Kim edits (#461)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: modules/ROOT/pages/as2/as2-connectorMule4.adoc

= AS2 Connector - Mule 4
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

> 

Reviewer: INSTRUCTIONS for edit:

can you review this entire PR? I would need it back by EofDay tomorrow as it is supposed to release on Friday.

Support Category: Premium

Version 5.0.0

> The Mule Runtime supports the AS2 protocol through the AS2 Connector. The AS2 connector enables trading partners transmit and receive AS2 messages with EDI-X12, EDIFACT, XML or binary payloads.

Reviewer: Please review the edit tip/style reference re. the proper way to refer to connector names.
```suggestion
Mule runtime engine (Mule) supports the AS2 protocol through Anypoint Connector for AS2 (AS2 Connector). AS2 Connector enables trading partners to transmit and receive AS2 messages with EDI-X12, EDIFACT, XML, or binary payloads.
```
We also use the series comma (before "and" in a list of three or more items).

This connector leverages the AS2 protocol, allowing Mule applications to:

> 

Reviewer: None of these list items is a complete sentence, so none should end with a period. Please fix.

* Send messages, signed or unsigned, over HTTP or HTTPS, following the AS2 protocol.

* Receive messages, also over HTTP or HTTPS, following the AS2 protocol.

> * Receive Asynchronous MDN for the message sent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Receive asynchronous MDN for the message sent
```

== About Connectors

> Anypoint connectors are Mule runtime engine extensions that enable you to connect to APIs and resources on external systems, such as X12 and RosettaNet.

Reviewer: Also in style guide and edit tip:
```suggestion
Anypoint Connectors are Mule runtime engine extensions that enable you to connect to APIs and resources on external systems, such as X12 and RosettaNet.
```

== Prerequisites

Familiarity with AS2, Mule, Anypoint Connectors, and Anypoint Studio.

== Add a POM File Dependency

> The `pom.xml` Maven file generated by Anypoint Studio contains dependencies for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `pom.xml` Apache Maven file generated by Anypoint Studio contains dependencies for
```

a Mule app. When you code a Mule app manually, include this XML snippet in
your `pom.xml` file to enable access to the connector. The Mule runtime engine
translates the `RELEASE` dependency keyword to the current version.

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<dependency>
   <groupId>com.mulesoft.connectors</groupId>
   <artifactId>mule-as2-connector</artifactId>
   <version>5.0.0</version>
   <classifier>mule-plugin</classifier>
</dependency>
----
To obtain the most up-to-date `pom.xml` file information, access the
connector in https://www.mulesoft.com/exchange/[Anypoint Exchange]
and click *Dependency Snippets*.

== Add a Namespace for the Connector

Paste the following code inside the `mule` tag of the header

> of your configuration XML:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of your configuration XML, making sure to include `current` in the schema path:
```

[source,xml,linenums]
----
http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/as2-mule4
http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/as2/current/mule-as2-mule4.xsd
----

[source,xml,linenums]
<mule xmlns:http="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http"
xmlns:as2="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/as2-mule4"
xmlns="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core"
xmlns:doc="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/documentation"
	xmlns:spring="http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans"
	xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
	    xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans
	    http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans/spring-beans-current.xsd
        http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core
	http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core/current/mule.xsd
        http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/as2-mule4
	http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/as2/current/mule-as2-mule4.xsd">
      <!-- put your global configuration elements and flows here -->
</mule>

> Note: Use current in the schema path. Studio interprets this to the current Mule version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

== Operations

> * Send with sync MDN: Sends a message through HTTP or HTTPS using the AS2 protocol requesting the partner for a synchronous MDN/receipt.

Reviewer: GLOBALLY use the following format for list items, per the style reference (the template also needs updating):
```suggestion
* Send with sync MDN
Sends a request through HTTP or HTTPS via the AS2 protocol, asking the partner for a synchronous MDN receipt.
```
QUESTION: I do not understand the slash (/) in "a synchronous MDN/receipt." There is no such noun object as MDN (Microsoft Dev. Network) that makes sense, so I am assuming that you mean "a synchronous MDN" (type of) "receipt". Please verify.

> * Send with async MDN: Sends a message through HTTP or HTTPS using the AS2 protocol requesting the partner for an asynchronous MDN/receipt.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Send with async MDN: Sends a message through HTTP or HTTPS using the AS2 protocol requesting the partner for an asynchronous MDN/receipt.
```
```suggestion
* Send with async MDN
Sends a request via HTTP or HTTPS using the AS2 protocol, asking the partner for an asynchronous MDN receipt.
```
DITTO questions and comments about previous peer text.

> * Listener: Source that receives messages via HTTP or HTTPS using the AS2 protocol.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Listener
Source that receives messages via HTTP or HTTPS using the AS2 protocol.
```

> * MDN Listener: Source that receives asynchronous MDN receipts via HTTP or HTTPS using the AS2 protocol.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* MDN Listener
Source that receives asynchronous MDN receipts via HTTP or HTTPS using the AS2 protocol.
```

== Example: Configure a Send AS2 Message

> . Place the connector in your flow as applicable for your use case.

Reviewer: Is the audience going to know what this means?
It might be more clear to end this sentence with "flow."

Reviewer: Also, see comment following Line 125.

> . To send an AS2 message with request for MDN in your Mule application, create a global “AS2 Connector Send config” element for use by the AS2 send operations. The “AS2 Connector Send config”  provides the following global configuration parameters:

Reviewer: Why include the first part of this step; isn't that what this example is about and what the title implies?
```suggestion
. Create a global “AS2 Connector Send config” element for use by the AS2 send operations, specifying
the following parameters:
```

> +

Reviewer: Again per the style guide and previous edits, we need to stop presenting key-value pairs in two-column tables and use a description list (dlist) instead. 

Omitting the table formatting, the dlist is formatted like this:

Self config - AS2 Partner Name:: Sender’s AS2 system identifier. Used for AS2-From and AS2-To headers.

It transforms like this:

**Self config - AS2 Partner Name**
Sender’s AS2 system identifier. Used for AS2-From and AS2-To headers.

Reviewer: GLOBAL reformat for table, or implement this copyedit for now.

Reviewer: Also, it is worthwhile to ask ourselves if we really need to provide our sophisticated audience with parameter definitions, especially when those parameters are intuitively named.

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
|Key| Description
|Self config - AS2 Partner Name| Sender’s AS2 system identifier. Used for AS2-From and AS2-To headers.

> |Self config - x509 alias| Sender’s Certificate and/or private key alias in the keystore. Required if using signing or encryption.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Self config - x509 alias| Sender’s certificate or private key alias in the keystore. Required if using signing or encryption.
```

|Self config - Email| Sender partner’s email.
|Partner config - AS2 ID| Receiver’s AS2 system identifier. Used for AS2-From and AS2-To headers.

> |Partner config - x509 alias| Receiver’s Certificate and/or private key alias in the keystore. Required if using signing or encryption.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Partner config - x509 alias| Receiver’s certificate or private key alias in the keystore. Required if using signing or encryption.
```

|Partner config - Email| Receiver partner’s email.

> |Requester config - Subject| Free form text for MIME Subject header. Can include references to self / partner `simpleName` values along with the message `fileName`, for example, Sending file example.txt to partner via AS2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Requester config - Subject| Free-form text for MIME subject header. Can include references to self or partner `simpleName` values along with the message `fileName`: for example, sending file example.txt to partner via AS2.
```

> |Requester config - MDN MIC Signature Algorithm| The algorithm with which MIC is calculated for the MDN/receipt signature. `UNSIGNED` by default, that is, message is not signed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Requester config - MDN MIC Signature Algorithm| The algorithm with which MIC is calculated for the MDN receipt signature. `UNSIGNED` by default.
```

|Requester config - Request a receipt| Option to request a receipt from the partner. `SIGNED_OPTIONAL` by default.

> |Requester config - Request delivery URL| Asynchronous receipt delivery URL which points to the MDN listener end point.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Requester config - Request delivery URL| Asynchronous receipt delivery URL that points to the MDN listener endpoint.
```

|Requester config - Encryption Algorithm| The encryption algorithm for encrypting the message. `UNENCRYPTED` by default.

> |Requester config - MIC Signature Algorithm| The algorithm with which MIC is calculated for the message signature. `UNSIGNED` by default, that is, message is not signed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Requester config - MIC Signature Algorithm| The algorithm with which MIC is calculated for the message signature. `UNSIGNED` by default.
```

|Requester config - Content transfer encoding| The content transfer encoding. `BINARY` by default.

> |Requester config - Compression type| The compression type. ZLIB is the only supported compression/decompression. `NONE` by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Requester config - Compression type|  ZLIB is the only supported compression and decompression type. `NONE` by default.
```

|Keystore config - Keystore Path| The path of the keystore where certificates and keys are provided.
|Keystore config - Keystore Password| The password for the keystore.

> |Keystore config - Private key Password| If private key requires a password.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Keystore config - Private key Password| If the private key requires a password.
```

|===
+

> . Configure a connection to the partner AS2 endpoint by providing the `Partner Base URL`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Configure a connection to the partner AS2 endpoint by providing the `Partner Base URL` value.
```

> . If you want to configure other connection details such as TLS, proxy, timeouts you can do that now.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. If you want to configure other connection details (such as TLS, proxy, and timeouts), you can do that now.
```

> . Choose to send the file/message by either using `Send with sync mdn` or `Send with async mdn`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Send the file or message by using either `Send with sync mdn` or `Send with async mdn`:
```

> 

Reviewer: The following list looks like it should also be a key-value pair list, where the keys are payload, filename, and Boolean? Why is this presented differently, if so?

** The payload is the message content to be sent.

** Filename is the file name of the message being sent.

> ** Boolean to configure if the process should fail or if the receipt status is not processed.

Reviewer: I don't understand the sentence syntax "Boolean to configure...or if...."
Is the user supposed to specify the syntax "Boolean", or a Boolean value?
Do we mean "in case the process fails or the receipt status is not processed"?

> NOTE: If you choose to request an asynchronous receipt, you need to configure `MDN Listener`.

Reviewer: I'm not sure about the placement or the clarity of this information, which I assume means that if the user chooses `Send with async mdn`, then the user has to perform another task...after finishing the items in the bullet list?
Maybe this Note should really be the final item in the bullet list: "If you choose `Send with async mdn` in the previous step, configure `MDN Listener."

> === Configure a MDN Listener

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Configure an MDN Listener
```

> Place the connector’s `MDN Listener` as a source in your flow as applicable for your use case and reference the global config defined here.

Reviewer: This intro needs to provide as context the previous task.
Is the previous task the only case in which a user configures this listener?
If so, we need to state that; if not, we need to tell what other use cases might need to.
Here and at Line 86, if by "your use case" we mean either synchronous or asynchronous, I suggest we just say so and omit the "applicable to your case" mystery....

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Place the connector’s MDN Listener as a source in your flow as applicable for your use case and reference the global config defined here.
```

> 

Reviewer: Again per the style guide and previous edits, we need to stop presenting key-value pairs in two-column tables and use a description list (dlist) instead.

Omitting the table formatting, the dlist is formatted like this:

Self config - AS2 Partner Name:: Sender’s AS2 system identifier. Used for AS2-From and AS2-To headers.

It transforms like this:

Self config - AS2 Partner Name
Sender’s AS2 system identifier. Used for AS2-From and AS2-To headers.

GLOBAL reformat for table, or implement this copyedit for now.

Also, it is worthwhile to ask ourselves if we really need to provide our sophisticated audience with parameter definitions, especially when those parameters are intuitively named.

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
|Key| Description
|Self config - AS2 OID| Sender partner’s OID.

> |Self config - x509 alias| Sender’s Certificate and/or private key alias in the keystore.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Self config - x509 alias| Sender’s certificate or private key alias in the keystore.
```

|Self config - Email| Sender partner’s email.
|Partner config - AS2 ID| Receiver partner’s OID.

> |Partner config - x509 alias| Receiver’s Certificate and/or private key alias in the keystore.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Partner config - x509 alias| Receiver’s certificate or private key alias in the keystore.
```

|Partner config - Email| Receiver partner’s email.
|HTTP Listener config| Reference to HTTP Listener global config.
|Keystore config - Keystore Path| The path of the keystore where certificates and keys are provided.
|Keystore config - Keystore Password| The password for the keystore.
|Keystore config - Private key Password| If the private key requires a password.
|===

> === Configure an AS2 Listener for receiving a message

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Configure an AS2 Listener for Receiving a Message
```

Reviewer: Should this be a peer example: "==Example: Configure a Receive AS2 Message"?
That would answer the edit question below....

> 

Reviewer: I understand why the previous topic is a subtopic of the Example topic, but why is this one also?

> . Place the connector’s `AS2 Listener` as a source in your flow as applicable for your use case and reference the global config as defined here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Place the connector’s AS2 Listener as a source in your flow as applicable for your use case and reference the global config as defined here.
```

> +

Reviewer: Again per the style guide and previous edits, we need to stop presenting key-value pairs in two-column tables and use a description list (dlist) instead.

Omitting the table formatting, the dlist is formatted like this:

Self config - AS2 Partner Name:: Sender’s AS2 system identifier. Used for AS2-From and AS2-To headers.

It transforms like this:

Self config - AS2 Partner Name
Sender’s AS2 system identifier. Used for AS2-From and AS2-To headers.

GLOBAL reformat for table, or implement this copyedit for now.

Also, it is worthwhile to ask ourselves if we really need to provide our sophisticated audience with parameter definitions, especially when those parameters are intuitively named.

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
|Key| Description
|Self config - AS2 OID| Receiver partner’s OID.
|Self config - x509 alias| Receiver alias as defined in the keystore file.
|Self config - Email| Receiver partner’s email.
|Partner config - AS2 ID| Sender partner’s OID.
|Partner config - x509 alias| Sender alias as defined in the keystore.
|Partner config - Email| Sender partner’s email.
|HTTP Listener config| Reference to HTTP Listener global config.
|Keystore config - Keystore Path| The path of the keystore where certificates and keys are provided.
|Keystore config - Keystore Password| The password for the keystore.
|Keystore config - Private key Password| If the private key requires a password.
|===
+
. Configure a connection to the partner if the MDN request is to be sent asynchronously.

> . If you want to configure other connection details such as TLS, proxy, timeouts do that now.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. If you want to configure other connection details (such as TLS, proxy, and timeouts), do that now.
```

== Runtime Configuration

> The AS2 Connector reads data using repeatable streams. Data is read into memory until a configurable threshold is reached, at which point the data will be written to disk.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
AS2 Connector reads data using repeatable streams. Data is read into memory until a configurable threshold is reached, at which point the data is written to disk.
```

> The default threshold for writing to disk is 64KB. This can be changed through the System property `com.mulesoft.connectors.as2.CachedOutputStream.Threshold`. This property requires an Integer value:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default threshold for writing to disk is 64 KB. You can change this by using the system property `com.mulesoft.connectors.as2.CachedOutputStream.Threshold`. This property requires an integer value:
```

** A positive value defines the maximum amount of data to read into memory in KB.

** A zero value means that all data is written directly to disk.

> ** A value of -1 means that the data is never written to disk, and will be stored into memory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** A value of -1 means that the data is never written to disk, and is stored into memory.
```

By default, the data is written to temporary files in the directory set by `java.io.tmpdir`.

> To change the directory, set the System property: `com.mulesoft.connectors.as2.CachedOutputStream.OutputDirectory`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To change the directory, reset the system property `com.mulesoft.connectors.as2.CachedOutputStream.OutputDirectory`.
```

> == Migrating from the AS2 connector Version 4.x

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Migrating from AS2 Connector 4.x
```

> The AS2 version 5 connector requires the `Async MDN` to be handled as a separate flow unlike v4.x . The retry of AS2 Message Send is not automatic. The application has to handle the retry upon failure in MDN or failure to receive MDN.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
AS2 Connector 5 requires that `Async MDN` be handled as a separate flow. The retry of the AS2 Message Send operation is no longer automatic in the flow, and the application is responsible for retrying upon failure in MDN or upon failure to receive MDN.
```
BUT...
Could this be reworded to tell the audience what IT needs to do to migrate?
Also, how can MDN (Microsoft Dev. Network) "fail"? Is it really AS2 MDN that fails?

> Version 5 allows you to reuse the application HTTP listener configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Version 5 enables you to reuse the application HTTP listener configuration.
```
Again, HOW does the user migrate?
